They gathered them together to the place that is called in Hebrew, Armageddon.
Who are they?
Who is being gathered?
And what is the significance of that to us as we go about our sacred service today?
The answers can be found in the context and invite you to find Revelation 16, and let's
begin reading in verse 13, which says, and I saw three unclean, inspired expressions that
looked like frogs.
Come out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the wild beast and out of the
false prophet.
They are, in fact, expressions inspired by demons, and they perform signs, and they go
out to the kings of the entire inhabited earth to gather them together to the war of the
great day of God, the Almighty.
And verse 16 says, and they, these expressions gathered them, the kings of the entire inhabited
earth to the place that is called in Hebrew, Armageddon, expressions.
Now these must be very persuasive expressions, because they compel not just a few isolated
kings here and there, but the kings of the entire inhabited earth to the situation
called Armageddon.
Now these expressions, you notice, are unclean, so they cannot originate with Jehovah.
And yet they are inspired, inspired by demons.
And yet they have their ultimate source in the mouth of the dragon, Satan, the devil,
the father of the lie.
But now who actually gives voice to these expressions?
And notice, in verse 13, that the expressions also come out of the mouths of the wild beast
and the false prophet, political entities of Satan's world.
So here we have unclean expressions inspired by demons originating with Satan but voiced,
repeated, parotid, echoed by people who constitute Satan's wicked world.
Now just what are these expressions that are so persuasive that they compel kings?
What concept would be so compelling?
Since 1914, Satan has been stepping up his efforts to mislead the entire inhabited
earth.
And one of his goals is to deceive mankind into thinking that humans, that Satan's way
of ruling is the best, that humans can actually achieve peace and security through their
own systems and governments.
Moreover, according to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verses 1 through 3, they will soon be
saying that they have actually achieved peace and security.
Now adding to the power of these inspired expressions are the signs.
The signs make it seem as if these expressions are actually coming true, perhaps that they
even have the backing of God, but the only God backing these particular inspired expressions
is the God of the system of things.
Is it unprecedented that Satan the devil would use miracles in an attempt to lend credibility
to his ideas, his wicked lies?
Exodus chapter 7 verses 10 through 12, Jehovah empowers Aaron's rod to become a snake,
but Pharaoh's magic practicing priests mimicked that very sign.
Likewise they mimicked the first and the second of the ten plagues.
Okay, but what about after the Christian congregation came into existence?
Paul indicated at 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 verses 3 through 12 that the apostate movement,
which eventually gave birth to the clergy of Christendom, would be backed by, quote,
the operation of Satan, with every powerful work and lying signs and wonders.
2 Thessalonians 2.9
Jehovah Mark chapter 13 verse 22 says, in the prophecy of the last days, Jesus said,
more over false Christs and false prophets will arise and will perform signs and wonders
to lead astray if possible, even the chosen ones.
So clearly demons teach, and it is not beyond Satan and the demons to back up their false
claims with wonders at times.
Although obviously their power in that regard is limited.
A subtle reminder of that fact is found at Revelation chapter 16 verse 14, which says that
they are gathered together to the place called Armageddon to the war of the great day of
God, the Almighty, the Almighty.
Only Jehovah can hold that title, and that very word is a guarantee that Jehovah's will
will ultimately prevail.
So is it possible that some professed Christians could start to believe expressions inspired
by demons that perform signs?
If it weren't possible, at least for individuals, then why would Revelation chapter 16 contain
this warning?
Right in the middle of the discussion about Armageddon that we just read, the verse that
we skipped, verse 16, contains a very relevant reminder for each and every one of us.
Now sometimes we skip it because we keep all the verses about Armageddon together, but
this is not an afterthought, a sidebar, just a wise saying, plunked in for no apparent
reason.
It's totally relevant.
Let's read it.
Look, verse 15, I'm coming as a thief.
Money is the one who stays awake and keeps his outer garments so that he may not walk naked
and people look upon his shamefulness.
So here we are, right on the cusp of the outbreak of the great tribulation.
You have an identity, garments, an identity as a faithful witness of Jehovah God.
Keep your identity.
How?
By keeping awake spiritually.
The article from which our text is taken entitled, Your Deliverance is Getting Near in the
July 15, 2015 issue with a watchtower points out in harmony with the Scriptures, boiling
down a number of scriptural facts that babble on the great will be destroyed.
Then, the initial part of the great tribulation will be cut short.
There will be a brief respite during which the majority of mankind will seek refuge
in human organizations.
Our message of good news will change to one of judgment.
Then the coalition of nations referred to as God of Megah will be bent on attacking Jehovah's
anointed ones and their associates.
Now only loyal love for Jehovah, obedient support of his anointed ones will get us through.
That will mean everything.
So what must we do now?
Stay awake.
You have an identity, not just Bethelite, Gilead graduate.
No, you've worked hard with Jehovah's help to establish an identity as a Christian worshiper
of Jehovah.
Keep it.
Perform holy acts of conduct.
We could say things we don't do, things we don't watch, things we don't read, things we
don't think about, things we don't say.
Don't let the demons tamper with your identity as a Christian with their unclean, inspired
expressions.
Perform deeds of godly devotion.
We could say things we do, preaching, lingering in prayer, continuing in your personal study.
Much is covered in Gilead, yes, but not everything.
The online study Bible is amazing, and it just keeps getting better day after day, helping
us to forge a closer bond, a close personal attachment with Jehovah, continued devoting
time to such deeds of godly devotion now, and you will succeed then.
You will not be duped by the expressions that perform signs as others are.
No, you will survive the great day of god, the Almighty, now so very near at hand.